Add doc for the infrastructure playbook repo (#22)
usegalaxy-eu/operations: infrastructure_playbook_repo.md

# [Infrastructure Playbook repository](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook)

## Generic introduction
* This repository contains the [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) playbooks, roles, etc for the European Galaxy server. It is used to deploy the infrastructure for the European Galaxy server through [Jenkins](https://build.galaxyproject.eu/job/usegalaxy-eu/). All configurational changes related to the [Galaxy EU](https://usegalaxy.eu) are made through this repository.
* Galaxy EU compute infrastructure is run on the [BW OpenStack cloud](https://portal.bw-cloud.org/). At the time of writing (21/02/2023) our cloud is of size 8488 VCPUs, 44.6 TB RAM, 162.6 TB storage. Additionally, a few petabytes of [storage](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/operations/blob/main/storage.md) is also mounted (NFS) in the cloud.
* The compute infrastructure (cloud cluster) is configured through [VGCN infrastructure repo](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/vgcn-infrastructure) where we define what [cloud images](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/vgcn) should be used, the size of the cloud cluster, the number of VMs, the cloud network, the cloud security groups, etc.

> * The cloud is configured through this [infrastructure repo](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure) using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/). The underlying cloud hardware, storage, network, etc are managed by the compute center of the University of Freiburg. For DNS records we use [Amazon's Route53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/).

Reviewer: Only the non-worker-nodes and dedicated machines for groupmembers

Author: Updated: https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/operations/pull/22/commits/0a07e911b1736c51a20943595f937ccc219a3e9f

* Some documentation related to [services](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/operations/blob/main/cloud/services.md) and IT operations are available in this [operations repo](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/operations)
* For Galaxy Admin training you can refer [here](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/admin/)
* For monitoring of the Galaxy EU infrastructure we use [Grafana](https://grafana.com/). The dashboards are available [here](https://stats.galaxyproject.eu/)

## Ansible
* [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) is an open-source software provisioning, configuration management, and application-deployment tool enabling infrastructure as code.
* The basic components of Ansible can be found [here](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/network/getting_started/basic_concepts.html). Understanding this is important to understand this repo.

## Our repo structure
* [files](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/files): contains files/configs that are used by the playbooks/roles

> * [group_vars](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/group_vars) and [host_vars](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/host_vars): contains variables that are used by the playbooks specific to certain host/group defined in the [inventory file](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/blob/master/hosts). For every playbook we have an associated group_vars/host_vars file where we define the variables that are used by the playbook and the roles that are included/imported in the playbook.

Reviewer: We don't use host_vars and in my understanding it can be deleted, but we should double check this

Author: That's my understanding too, while doing a complete cleaning we can revisit this and fix it.

> * [roles](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles): contains the roles that are included/imported in the playbooks. The roles contain a set of tasks to configure a host to serve a certain purpose like configuring a service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [roles](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles): Contains roles that are **not** maintained somewhere else, which is not typical for Ansible. All other roles are installed during deployment from the requirements.yaml file.
```

  * [syn-to-nfs.yml](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/blob/master/sync-to-nfs.yml): This playbook is used to sync the data of the Galaxy codebase on `headnode 1 (sn06)` to a NFS server. This is then synced to all nodes that needs the up-to-date Galaxy codebase and configuration files.
  * [telescope.yml](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/blob/master/telescope.yml): This playbook is used to setup the [Galactic Radio Telescope](https://github.com/hexylena/galactic-radio-telescope)
  * [upload.yml](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/blob/master/upload.yml): This playbook sets up the [TUS](https://tus.io/) server that is used to upload data to Galaxy. Refer to this [training material](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/admin/tutorials/tus/tutorial.html) to set up TUS.

  ## Roles

> Our locally maintained Ansible roles are located in the [roles directory](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles). Also, we maintain several other roles and all of them are in their own github repositories and can be found in our [organization](https://github.com/orgs/usegalaxy-eu/repositories). Most of these roles are published on [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/usegalaxy_eu). In addition to our roles we also use roles from the [galaxyproject (Galaxy USA instance)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/galaxyproject) All the roles (non-local) we use are listed in our [requirements.yaml](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/blob/master/requirements.yaml) file. These roles can be installed by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our locally maintained Ansible roles are located in the [roles directory](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles). Also, we maintain several other roles and all of them are in their own github repositories and can be found in our [organization](https://github.com/orgs/usegalaxy-eu/repositories). Most of these roles are published on [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/usegalaxy_eu). In addition to our roles we also use roles from the [galaxyproject](https://galaxy.ansible.com/galaxyproject) All the roles (non-local) we use are listed in our [requirements.yaml](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/blob/master/requirements.yaml) file. These roles can be installed by running the following command:
```

| [hxr.monitor-galaxy-queue](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/hxr.monitor-galaxy-queue) |  |  | Adds a Telegraf task to run `gxadmin` queries for monitoring Galaxy queue and workflow-incovcation-status |
| [hxr.monitor-squid](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/hxr.monitor-squid) |  | :heavy_check_mark: | Adds a [squid proxy](https://github.com/squid-cache/squid) data parser script and a Telegraf task to monitor |
| [hxr.monitor-ssl](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/hxr.monitor-ssl) |  | :heavy_check_mark: | Adds an SSL check script and a Telegraf task to monitor SSL certificates expiry |
| [hxr.postgres-connection](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/hxr.postgres-connection) |  | :heavy_check_mark: | Adds Galaxy database credentials and required ENVs to the user's bashrc file and creates a `~/.pgpass` file as well |

> | [hxr.remap-user](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/hxr.remap-user) |  | :heavy_check_mark: | Remaps system user's UID and GID to the tomcat user/group |

Reviewer: This looks obsolete, since we have it in the handy_os role

Author: Used by [apollo.yml](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/blob/master/apollo.yml) playbook.

As it is mentioned in the readme if a role is used in a playbook in the repo then it is marked as _still being used_. Yes, this is obsolete and should be migrated to the one in [os_setup](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/ansible-collection-handy/tree/main/roles/os_setup) role in our [handy](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/ansible-collection-handy) collection. 

This document describes the current state of the repo. 

We should do cleanup tasks at some point (this document will help us to have an overlook):
1. Remove roles that are not used 
2. Change obsolete roles with the ones that we maintain (like this role for example)

| [usegalaxy-eu.log-cleaner](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/usegalaxy-eu.log-cleaner) |  | :heavy_check_mark: | Adds cron job to clean up old journalctl logs of gunicorn and galaxy handlers services |
| [usegalaxy-eu.logrotate](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/usegalaxy-eu.logrotate) |  | :heavy_check_mark: | Adds logrotate configuration for galaxy and atop logs  |
| [usegalaxy-eu.monitoring](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/usegalaxy-eu.monitoring) |  | :heavy_check_mark: | Adds Telegraf tasks for monitoring NFS shares access times, and to collect NFS stats |
| [usegalaxy-eu.plausible](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/usegalaxy-eu.plausible) |  | :heavy_check_mark: | Clones [Plausible](https://github.com/plausible/analytics)  Analytics [setup](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/hosting) and adds the configuration and starts the service using Docker |

> | [usegalaxy-eu.remap-user](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master/roles/usegalaxy-eu.remap-user) |  |  | Remaps system user and group with UID and GID 999 to a different UID and GID so Galaxy user can be created with 999 UID and GID |

Reviewer: Isn't this obsolete and replaced by the Handy_OS collection/role?

Author: Yes, same as my previous comment.

| [geerlingguy.java](https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/java) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Role for installing Java |
| [geerlingguy.jenkins](https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/jenkins) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Role for installing [Jenkins CI](https://www.jenkins.io/) |
| [geerlingguy.repo-epel](https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/repo-epel) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Installs the [EPEL repository](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) |
| [influxdata.chrony](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/ansible-chrony) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Manages the Chrony services on Linux. |
| [linuxhq.yum_cron](https://galaxy.ansible.com/linuxhq/yum_cron) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Installs `yum-cron` and adds required configuration  |
| [galaxyproject.gxadmin](https://galaxy.ansible.com/galaxyproject/gxadmin) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Installs and configures [gxadmin](https://github.com/galaxyproject/gxadmin) |
| [usegalaxy-eu.certbot](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/ansible-certbot) | :heavy_check_mark: |  | Installs and configures Certbot (for Let's Encrypt). |

> | [usegalaxy_eu.galaxy_systemd](https://galaxy.ansible.com/usegalaxy_eu/galaxy_systemd) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Sets up Galaxy server processes ussing systemd |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [usegalaxy_eu.galaxy_systemd](https://galaxy.ansible.com/usegalaxy_eu/galaxy_systemd) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Copies systemd service files and starts processes for Gunicorn handlers, Galaxy (workflow) handlers and celery. Important to configure those processes|
```

| [cloudalchemy.grafana](https://galaxy.ansible.com/cloudalchemy/grafana) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Role for provisioning and managing [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) platform for analytics and monitoring |
| [galaxyproject.tiaas2](https://galaxy.ansible.com/galaxyproject/tiaas2) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Install and configure [TIaaS](https://github.com/galaxyproject/tiaas2) (Training Infrastructure as a Service) |
| [usegalaxy-eu.autoupdates](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/ansible-autoupdates) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Sets up automatic system Updates using Dnf-automatic |
| [usegalaxy_eu.htcondor](https://galaxy.ansible.com/usegalaxy_eu/htcondor) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Role for installing and configuring [HTCondor](https://htcondor.org/) |
| [usegalaxy-eu.update-hosts](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/ansible-update-hosts) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Adds a cron job to update computing nodes list in a HTCondor managed cluster |

> | [usegalaxy_eu.gie_proxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/usegalaxy_eu/gie_proxy) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Install and configure the proxy server used by Galaxy for IE (Interactive Environments) and IT (Interactive Tools) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [usegalaxy_eu.gie_proxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/usegalaxy_eu/gie_proxy) | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark: | Install and configure the proxy server used by Galaxy for IE (Interactive Environments) /IT (Interactive Tools) |
```
